Title: Press Releases > APEC 2025 KOREA
URL: https://apec2025.kr/?menuno=16&act=view&ztag=rO0ABXQAUTxjYWxsIHR5cGU9ImJvYXJkIiBubz0iNyIgc2tpbj0icGhvdG90aHVtYl9zdWJtaXQyIiBiYnNubz0iMzQiIHNpdGVubz0iMiI-PC9jYWxsPg==
Word Count: 2557
================================================================================

=== PRESS RELEASES ===
6th Meeting of Korea APEC 2025 Organizing CommitteeDate2025-04-17Views1,585- Comprehensive review of preparations conducted ahead of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM), with close coordination among the government, local authorities, and the private sector to ensure full readiness within the remaining time -1. The sixth meeting of the Korea APEC 2025 Organizing Committee, chaired by Acting President and Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, was held in the Government Complex Seoul at 14:00 on Thursday, April 17, 2025.- The Committee was convened to conduct a comprehensive review of the ongoing preparations and plans—including Sectoral Ministerial Meetings, high-level dialogues, infrastructure development, cultural events, promotional activities, sponsorships, and the events for business leaders—as well as the expected key deliverables of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM).2. At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee reviewed the progress of preparations for the Sectoral Ministerial Meetings and high-level dialogues set to begin in earnest from April, and discussed the anticipated outcomes of the AELM.- The Committee members agreed to continue follow-up discussions to ensure the delivery of concrete outcomes from APEC 2025 KOREA’s key initiatives—"Cooperation on AI” and “Addressing Demographic Changes” such as declining birth rates and population aging—reflecting the strong interest and support expressed by member economies during the First Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM1), successfully held in Gyeongju this past March.3. The meeting also covered updates on the development of infrastructure for the AELM, plans for cultural events, promotional activities and sponsorship, and the business-related events.- Construction of key facilities, including the main meeting venue and the media center, is scheduled to commence in April. In the months ahead, Korea will also continue its efforts to secure a sufficient number of Presidential Suites (PRS) for the leaders as well as high-quality accommodations for other participants, including business leaders.- To embody APEC’s core value of cooperation and solidarity, Korea is meticulously planning major events such as an official dinner, leaders’ retreats, and the spouses’ program. Korea also plans to actively promote the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting to be held in Gyeongju as well as Korea’s national brand on the global stage.- In addition, the sponsorship framework aligned with APEC’s spirit was presented, outlining how the public and private sector will work together to ensure the successful hosting of the AELM, based on the principle of voluntary participation.- The government and the private sector will coordinate efforts to actively engage business leaders both at home and abroad, and to prepare a range of side events aligned with the business engagement programs taking place during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week, including the CEO Summit and the Leaders’ Dialogue with the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC).4. Acting President Han emphasized that “considering the time required for infrastructure development and other preparations, now is the time to swiftly implement concrete plans.” In addition, the Acting President urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take the lead, with all relevant ministries, local governments, and the private sector working together as one team to ensure that every aspect of the preparations is carried out flawlessly, leaving no room for error in the lead-up to the AELM.- The Acting President also stressed the importance of the events that engage business leaders in supporting Korean companies as they expand their global business networks and in attracting greater investment to Korea. In this regard, he called on Mr. Chey Tae-won, Chairman of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and Mr. Lee Kyu-ho, ABAC Member and Vice Chairman of Kolon, to provide strong leadership in organizing the events.5. Building on the outcome of this meeting, the government will continue thorough preparations so that the AELM—set to take place in Korea for the first time in 20 years—can serve as a comprehensive economic and cultural platform that drives regional economic cooperation and showcases Korea’s rich culture.Previous postOfficial Social Media Channels for APEC 2025 KOREA LaunchedNext postRepublic of Korea Highlights Preparations for 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting at Boao Forum for Asia (BFA)List 6th Meeting of Korea APEC 2025 Organizing CommitteeDate2025-04-17Views1,585- Comprehensive review of preparations conducted ahead of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM), with close coordination among the government, local authorities, and the private sector to ensure full readiness within the remaining time -1. The sixth meeting of the Korea APEC 2025 Organizing Committee, chaired by Acting President and Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, was held in the Government Complex Seoul at 14:00 on Thursday, April 17, 2025.- The Committee was convened to conduct a comprehensive review of the ongoing preparations and plans—including Sectoral Ministerial Meetings, high-level dialogues, infrastructure development, cultural events, promotional activities, sponsorships, and the events for business leaders—as well as the expected key deliverables of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM).2. At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee reviewed the progress of preparations for the Sectoral Ministerial Meetings and high-level dialogues set to begin in earnest from April, and discussed the anticipated outcomes of the AELM.- The Committee members agreed to continue follow-up discussions to ensure the delivery of concrete outcomes from APEC 2025 KOREA’s key initiatives—"Cooperation on AI” and “Addressing Demographic Changes” such as declining birth rates and population aging—reflecting the strong interest and support expressed by member economies during the First Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM1), successfully held in Gyeongju this past March.3. The meeting also covered updates on the development of infrastructure for the AELM, plans for cultural events, promotional activities and sponsorship, and the business-related events.- Construction of key facilities, including the main meeting venue and the media center, is scheduled to commence in April. In the months ahead, Korea will also continue its efforts to secure a sufficient number of Presidential Suites (PRS) for the leaders as well as high-quality accommodations for other participants, including business leaders.- To embody APEC’s core value of cooperation and solidarity, Korea is meticulously planning major events such as an official dinner, leaders’ retreats, and the spouses’ program. Korea also plans to actively promote the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting to be held in Gyeongju as well as Korea’s national brand on the global stage.- In addition, the sponsorship framework aligned with APEC’s spirit was presented, outlining how the public and private sector will work together to ensure the successful hosting of the AELM, based on the principle of voluntary participation.- The government and the private sector will coordinate efforts to actively engage business leaders both at home and abroad, and to prepare a range of side events aligned with the business engagement programs taking place during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week, including the CEO Summit and the Leaders’ Dialogue with the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC).4. Acting President Han emphasized that “considering the time required for infrastructure development and other preparations, now is the time to swiftly implement concrete plans.” In addition, the Acting President urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take the lead, with all relevant ministries, local governments, and the private sector working together as one team to ensure that every aspect of the preparations is carried out flawlessly, leaving no room for error in the lead-up to the AELM.- The Acting President also stressed the importance of the events that engage business leaders in supporting Korean companies as they expand their global business networks and in attracting greater investment to Korea. In this regard, he called on Mr. Chey Tae-won, Chairman of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and Mr. Lee Kyu-ho, ABAC Member and Vice Chairman of Kolon, to provide strong leadership in organizing the events.5. Building on the outcome of this meeting, the government will continue thorough preparations so that the AELM—set to take place in Korea for the first time in 20 years—can serve as a comprehensive economic and cultural platform that drives regional economic cooperation and showcases Korea’s rich culture. - Comprehensive review of preparations conducted ahead of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM), with close coordination among the government, local authorities, and the private sector to ensure full readiness within the remaining time -1. The sixth meeting of the Korea APEC 2025 Organizing Committee, chaired by Acting President and Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, was held in the Government Complex Seoul at 14:00 on Thursday, April 17, 2025.- The Committee was convened to conduct a comprehensive review of the ongoing preparations and plans—including Sectoral Ministerial Meetings, high-level dialogues, infrastructure development, cultural events, promotional activities, sponsorships, and the events for business leaders—as well as the expected key deliverables of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM).2. At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee reviewed the progress of preparations for the Sectoral Ministerial Meetings and high-level dialogues set to begin in earnest from April, and discussed the anticipated outcomes of the AELM.- The Committee members agreed to continue follow-up discussions to ensure the delivery of concrete outcomes from APEC 2025 KOREA’s key initiatives—"Cooperation on AI” and “Addressing Demographic Changes” such as declining birth rates and population aging—reflecting the strong interest and support expressed by member economies during the First Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM1), successfully held in Gyeongju this past March.3. The meeting also covered updates on the development of infrastructure for the AELM, plans for cultural events, promotional activities and sponsorship, and the business-related events.- Construction of key facilities, including the main meeting venue and the media center, is scheduled to commence in April. In the months ahead, Korea will also continue its efforts to secure a sufficient number of Presidential Suites (PRS) for the leaders as well as high-quality accommodations for other participants, including business leaders.- To embody APEC’s core value of cooperation and solidarity, Korea is meticulously planning major events such as an official dinner, leaders’ retreats, and the spouses’ program. Korea also plans to actively promote the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting to be held in Gyeongju as well as Korea’s national brand on the global stage.- In addition, the sponsorship framework aligned with APEC’s spirit was presented, outlining how the public and private sector will work together to ensure the successful hosting of the AELM, based on the principle of voluntary participation.- The government and the private sector will coordinate efforts to actively engage business leaders both at home and abroad, and to prepare a range of side events aligned with the business engagement programs taking place during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week, including the CEO Summit and the Leaders’ Dialogue with the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC).4. Acting President Han emphasized that “considering the time required for infrastructure development and other preparations, now is the time to swiftly implement concrete plans.” In addition, the Acting President urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take the lead, with all relevant ministries, local governments, and the private sector working together as one team to ensure that every aspect of the preparations is carried out flawlessly, leaving no room for error in the lead-up to the AELM.- The Acting President also stressed the importance of the events that engage business leaders in supporting Korean companies as they expand their global business networks and in attracting greater investment to Korea. In this regard, he called on Mr. Chey Tae-won, Chairman of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and Mr. Lee Kyu-ho, ABAC Member and Vice Chairman of Kolon, to provide strong leadership in organizing the events.5. Building on the outcome of this meeting, the government will continue thorough preparations so that the AELM—set to take place in Korea for the first time in 20 years—can serve as a comprehensive economic and cultural platform that drives regional economic cooperation and showcases Korea’s rich culture. - Comprehensive review of preparations conducted ahead of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM), with close coordination among the government, local authorities, and the private sector to ensure full readiness within the remaining time - 1. The sixth meeting of the Korea APEC 2025 Organizing Committee, chaired by Acting President and Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, was held in the Government Complex Seoul at 14:00 on Thursday, April 17, 2025. - The Committee was convened to conduct a comprehensive review of the ongoing preparations and plans—including Sectoral Ministerial Meetings, high-level dialogues, infrastructure development, cultural events, promotional activities, sponsorships, and the events for business leaders—as well as the expected key deliverables of the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM). 2. At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee reviewed the progress of preparations for the Sectoral Ministerial Meetings and high-level dialogues set to begin in earnest from April, and discussed the anticipated outcomes of the AELM. - The Committee members agreed to continue follow-up discussions to ensure the delivery of concrete outcomes from APEC 2025 KOREA’s key initiatives—"Cooperation on AI” and “Addressing Demographic Changes” such as declining birth rates and population aging—reflecting the strong interest and support expressed by member economies during the First Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM1), successfully held in Gyeongju this past March. 3. The meeting also covered updates on the development of infrastructure for the AELM, plans for cultural events, promotional activities and sponsorship, and the business-related events. - Construction of key facilities, including the main meeting venue and the media center, is scheduled to commence in April. In the months ahead, Korea will also continue its efforts to secure a sufficient number of Presidential Suites (PRS) for the leaders as well as high-quality accommodations for other participants, including business leaders. - To embody APEC’s core value of cooperation and solidarity, Korea is meticulously planning major events such as an official dinner, leaders’ retreats, and the spouses’ program. Korea also plans to actively promote the 2025 APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting to be held in Gyeongju as well as Korea’s national brand on the global stage. - In addition, the sponsorship framework aligned with APEC’s spirit was presented, outlining how the public and private sector will work together to ensure the successful hosting of the AELM, based on the principle of voluntary participation. - The government and the private sector will coordinate efforts to actively engage business leaders both at home and abroad, and to prepare a range of side events aligned with the business engagement programs taking place during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week, including the CEO Summit and the Leaders’ Dialogue with the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC). 4. Acting President Han emphasized that “considering the time required for infrastructure development and other preparations, now is the time to swiftly implement concrete plans.” In addition, the Acting President urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take the lead, with all relevant ministries, local governments, and the private sector working together as one team to ensure that every aspect of the preparations is carried out flawlessly, leaving no room for error in the lead-up to the AELM. - The Acting President also stressed the importance of the events that engage business leaders in supporting Korean companies as they expand their global business networks and in attracting greater investment to Korea. In this regard, he called on Mr. Chey Tae-won, Chairman of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and Mr. Lee Kyu-ho, ABAC Member and Vice Chairman of Kolon, to provide strong leadership in organizing the events. 5. Building on the outcome of this meeting, the government will continue thorough preparations so that the AELM—set to take place in Korea for the first time in 20 years—can serve as a comprehensive economic and cultural platform that drives regional economic cooperation and showcases Korea’s rich culture. List